Let’s start with the Ubuntu Upgrade first as it’s more important one.

Please make sure to backup your data first as updates quite often fail!

Ubuntu upgrade

The first step would be to make sure your current system is up to date. You can achieve this by running

sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
After it’s completion make sure either UFW firewall is temporarily disabled or TCP port 1022 is open. You can execute the following

sudo ufw allow 1022/tcp comment 'Temp open port ssh tcp port 1022 for upgrade'
Upgrade the operating system to the latest release from the command-line by typing the following command:

sudo do-release-upgrade
Now follow on-screen instructions. During upgrade procedure, you may be promoted to replace existing grub or ssh config file. Make sure you choose to keep existing version to avoid problems!

After some time you will see “System upgrade is complete” message. Press y to restart your system to load updates kernel and operating system for your cloud server

You’ll need to reboot your droplet now.

As soon as it’s powers on, close connections to your port 1022:

 sudo ufw delete allow 1022/tcp
That’s it, you should now have an updated Ubuntu version!

Please make sure to backup your data first as updates quite often fail!

Now to upgrade your PHP Version to 7.4.

Upgrade PHP to 7.4

The first important thing to know is that you won’t be actually upgrading the PHP version but installing the newest one as well.

You’ll need to add the proper repositories

sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ondrej/php
sudo apt update
Next depending on your WebService - Nginx/Apache you have different steps.

Let’s start with the Nginx requirements:

sudo apt install php7.4-fpm
To check this afterwards run

php-fpm7.4 -v
Now if you are using Apache :

sudo apt install php7.4
Now that you have the PHP version, you’ll need to install some extensions. You can do it like so

sudo apt install php7.4-extension_name
The most common extensions can be installed with the following command

sudo apt install php7.4-common php7.4-mysql php7.4-xml php7.4-xmlrpc php7.4-curl php7.4-gd php7.4-imagick php7.4-cli php7.4-dev php7.4-imap php7.4-mbstring php7.4-opcache php7.4-soap php7.4-zip php7.4-intl -y

Install Apache2 inside /etc/php/7.4 folder as it was missing! :
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-php7.4

Disable old version of PHP and re-enable new version of PHP - mandatory - otherwise wordpress won't recognize the upgrade and it comes with alert messages on Site Health
a2dismod php7.2
a2enmod php7.4
systemctl restart apache2

That’s it.
